hi welcome everyone to the project
working groups we think of the first one
of 2019
today is January the 8th we today have a
new document for meeting notes I've
shared it on zoom' but I can share the
can just join and keep this
so today Oh Thank You Molly
I see I've been assigned as a moderator
I guess I'll do that and Molly it's a
note-taker
thank you all for taking notes yeah so
first just quick PSA I released a call
to 30 minutes I just like to try to make
it more efficient we time and try to
make you scholar more about the
coordination point rather than like a
warp our moment product if we need to
schedule other work hours like we can
always do that like it's not like adding
that as usual perhaps like let's just
give people like two minutes to add any
agenda items let's review the agenda and
then if there are new agenda items we
can do this like ranking as we have been
so far which is helpful all right two
minutes counting now or people can just
like give a thumbs up here if they feel
like it's done and and so you can say oh
you have a hand this is not a new topic
this is I just clicked on our waffle
board and it's got a random stuff in an
IP of I slash ipfs in it and is that
expected because like C+ implementations
Haskell implementation c-sharp
implementations seem a little out of
scope for this venue unless it's a
saying which of these is most important
and we want to push some humans toward
I'm confused tell me more what do you
mean are you not studying C++ too I mean
it'd be fine Alex it's a good
like jumping to the first item of the
agenda so we have a Kanban board we have
a bunch of repos that we track right now
the ones that I added was of course if
you management people the project new
repo itself and the ipfs happy fest and
the roadmap people so one of the things
I spent some time doing this past week
we're just like removing the spider webs
from all these issues because some of
them are real really old and some of
them are about these topics as like will
there be C++ implementation or C sharp
etc some of them are actually very good
ideas that people contributed to the
projects things that they have done
research things that they have noticed
that we could improve on or just like
feature requests etc when this repo was
originally created we in the IP
personalization we didn't have the notes
repo which is today the collaborative
notebook and and so what I've done is
removing these spider webs was closing
the one that already got answered for
the things that I already I've happened
and so I just provide the pointer so the
user or the ones that are still very
good ideas I moved them to the notes
people one of the things we can do as a
project working group is make sure that
like these issues have a follow-up or a
place to leave do not get forgotten and
so that's why they appear on the wall
work today they don't have to leave in
the ffs forever
we can also unfollow the ipfs Sasha
Pieterse people but for now given a bet
there is an entry point and the on
warning points the project
it felt wise that I have a working group
that is responsible to check it to track
it
until what I would like to invite
everyone is to join me on this effort of
cleaning the spiderwebs
from from these issues like checking on
them see what they talk about see if
there is already a good better location
for them to live if yes then just like
Google transfer if not let's checking
the next time and see like if there are
too many issues that I just belong to
these people that should not be on our
line of sight and so what to do about
that I actually I don't have any plan
beyond just like making sure that
you know them this is make sense answer
to your question any father comes to how
do I sort waffle by something like
priority it was like that's that's the
problem we add all of this stuff and
then there's a lot of stuff and I can't
find the important stuff so I don't know
how to sort sort but I know how to
filter and so yeah like the filter at
the top right if you click it you can
filter by multiple filters assignee
epochs labels etc and typically what I
do is just like I pick the priority
levels please Europe you want and and so
on
and and yeah another thing that like
waffle gives us which I haven't created
any but you actually can create epics so
you can create like a batch of issues
that like belonged like a specific goal
and so instead of like having to move 10
or 20 issues like you just move like
this one card or like you know priority
it's this one card that leaves on waffle
but like there's like some good
tutorials on waffle on there awful that
I a web page I can I speak some and
share with the group so that like we all
share understanding all to use these
tools but we also can ask them to have a
feature to like sort circles I go hi
Emily sorry I feel like I'm on this but
I think given the current view of
waffles driving the meeting off of
waffle seems difficult so if the goal is
like I want this so that I can kind of
like the lab OS Kanban whereas like I
take it glance and I like know which
things are the top priorities today and
like know which things people are
actively working on and which things are
done for this particular group of people
who are trying to get things done like I
feel like I can use that Kanban for that
purpose this I feel like is a an
interesting creative high level look at
stuff that's happening in my PFS world
but not something that I can use to like
prioritize so
if if I were to imagine something that
is more of a you know checking or agenda
item for this group it's more like here
are the projects that we are working on
and we're gonna check in on any of those
that have updates or questions or
blockers of like okay roadmap that's
something that's important to us what
are what is moved on that this week we
need to do anything okay okay are
whatever we need to do okay on on-ramp
new working groups and so like we kind
of have those agenda items and we check
in on them where is I could imagine
waffle doing that if there were nothing
else but that in it but since there's so
much other stuff I think and I'm making
too many comments I'm not taking notes
thank you think you've heard a question
I I do understand the feeling and and
right now like the reason why I spend so
much time like removing the best from
all these issues was just so like we
could frame the waffle board into a
measurable state by humans but like
there the reality is it's still
challenging and so either we actually
manage to actually like again move the
thing gets very clean and very easy to
observe or we need to iterate now or
wait we approach to Kanban or decide to
drop combat at all but um but like that
there might be space for a pre step or
like filtering these issues to bring
some like all the more important issues
to the meeting to be reviewed rather
than asking the group to review a
hundred mission issues 200 issues
altogether and that is something that I
I think we actually need to like help
data organization level up because like
forever a long time we have been using
this structure of the waffle board we
back in box like already in progress
done but right now it might be time to
actually have something more to kind of
like provide this clarity I like I
upgraded their previous kind of and
documents to have the description of how
we use it today and actually I know that
Michel has been thinking about this and
so which I don't know if you have like
any right away comments to this I know
you have some ideas but like one thing I
would like to propose is for us as a
group to kind of like do a proposal
of great a can belt or a call like if
this is something we believe beneficial
like this precept pre-filtering can we
upgrade the protocol so that we all
share that version of the protocol we
sound like you and I can any comment I
know I give anything about waffle boards
and how to help teams understand what is
the top things to look at
yep I've said I think I unfortunately
during the meeting like five minutes
late and I think that's when you said
the thing about the filtering so I
missed the filtering part but yes I mean
in general I'm a proponent of boards and
pulling things in and I agreed with the
things that Molly said though yeah we
have to yep do the thing so I guess I'll
go and read your suggestion I'm sure
it's somewhere and then I think you be
some comments got it got it okay so
that's good too the the issue was
brought up we have a came on board it's
still very hard to manage we have a
protocol about we use it Kanban board
it's like clearly describes that
explains the role of each column we know
we need to upgrade it we don't know the
final solution yet there is some ideas
let's like then do the upgrade by
requesting to this description to this
can bend up and B so that we all
understand and with you
cool ok so did i sorry I think Steve's
had a question and then I the question I
get I was just gonna ask whether Molly
if if this Kanban board were to have all
the the metadata added like priority etc
which is maybe not established across
the entire all the issues there and we
just started a meeting looking at p0 and
p1 for instance across IP of s is a way
to set the table for the project working
group work does that does that get to
what you both would be looking for so
we'd be looking at a filtered view of
this of this IP FS yeah if we only set
p0 and p1 on items that we as the
project working group cared about and
like and we had full coverage of all the
things we care about in issues across
these various repos then
effectively gives us a list of projects
or epics or whatever that are important
for this group to be working on and then
yes we could use this filter and we
could use this thing this is assuming
that like no one else uses those things
across the other repos where we don't
hire them for example like the meeting
notes from weekly meetings which like
really we do not need to discuss in this
forum but are all currently in our
Kanban and might have a priority
according to someone else and so I think
that's we could effectively if we had a
label that's like we care about this
then we could filter on that label and
we can filter on priority and we can get
a view I understand now that helped me
understand where this this conversation
came from and I do have a useful comment
maybe which is priority labels tend to
conflict with columns I tend to use the
columns to to show focus so like the
other board that I set up that I know W
do you have a node on and I just haven't
gotten back to it's like we all as a
group decide what goes into the column
that says like we are focusing on these
things right now and you have to do that
manually that's not a thing that can
happen automatically so probably my
comments around this will be this isn't
really a Kanban problem it's a time and
somebody has to manage a problem yeah
and group like coming together and
saying we're gonna put these and we're
thinking of this column now and then
when we come to the meeting we focus on
my column where what if this yeah so I'm
just demonstrating really fast yeah what
it looks like when you filter by
priorities it keeps things in their
columns no like you said like people are
using priorities across all of our stuff
in really different ways and we need a
way to show this group of people what we
we are saying we like so we either have
to make a new label which is what I
originally tried to do in the other
thing that's like for us but then it has
the the viewpoint about the problem or
then it adds this like label craft to
everybody else's repos and that's not
fun yeah so yep the filtering but then
it gets this overlapping thing and then
there's this other thing where each
group actually uses those filter those
priority labels in a very different way
like some people like divvied you'll
come in and be like I think this is the
important to me and puts the priority
label on and then like like we have in
the hiring thing where we have to figure
out that
hiring was using a priority thing in a
different way and then we ended up with
two different things and dude is just so
anyways I find it easier to do if you're
doing Kanban with a group eautiful
columns I'm just always go to the
columns yeah bring a little points in
the only note I would add is like I
think it's actually like it makes about
strategies like the priority level
labels couldn't get one thing to the
rest of the organization and to the rest
of the community the columns communicate
something very valuable to the team
which like what to focus and like what
people are working on like the waffle
board the tool itself like for example
let says hi some of these cards like so
we could perhaps like hide the card that
says Jess weekly meeting or go I be
passed weekly meeting because we don't
have to look at it at all until there's
like so much portion here my my only ask
is really like if we could drive the the
remaining of the conversation through
like either an issue or full request to
this document then we will have this
protocol written down that we can like
not only hear about the wrestling
musician I think like there is act a
step to upgrade the protocol that will
be beneficial to other working groups
that are using Kanban as well and Ali
Ali put a note in the group chat is my
kiss in a jerk but read what Ali wrote I
might keep failing my authorities we
have a job to do because to me this repo
way it's very ties that as a job first
oh there is a separate issue that
projects what projects or a waffle can
men should pull from good thank you yeah
can we have that selection item
probably already for all of us you can
you can add that I was like me as never
but like I would appreciate everyone
stop all right I mean it
we have steal a bunch of items perhaps
30 so help working groups by the way can
we close the can bad thing like all good
awesome
out working groups finalize their 2019
q1
okay arts including our own some we also
have to finalize our own so ok ours are
still open like they are still getting
reviewed versus some more to do like
teams already presented they already got
a bunch of feedback they already got
some extra feedback already this year's
time but I think I could be super
helpful to have some kind of like divide
and conquer strategy the same way did we
approach your maps to help teams just
like rabbit to the end and so that's
what I wanted to propose I can we like
divide ourselves by working groups so
that we can help each working group get
their cares in exited dates like what
would be like a fair dates to put on the
calendar to say okay this should all be
merged and like we should just go ahead
all he does this already exist on our
okay our calendar let's swing from the
edge it's that calendar it just goes by
start and end date and doesn't account
for the fact that we might roll in
months of months I'm still not
finalizing but I'm it's a cool calendar
thanks for bringing it up it exists
great my proposal my mother puzzle that
I had acted out was end of next week
and I like the idea for there being a
weekly team meeting between now and then
caveat that I think distributed dynamic
data and capabilities I get you guys so
mixed up I think just had their
bi-weekly meeting and therefore would
not have another meeting prior to that
deadline and I think the reason the
reason I want that is because I want us
to have time in a regularly scheduled
meeting to do that the exercise that we
did right before break which was like we
took whatever it was five five minutes
and then ten minutes for discussion to
be like great as a group we try and
allocate these projects by quarter and
we use that as a feedback mechanism to
be like who we weren't planning to do
this this quarter but then we're not
going to be on track to this other stuff
we wanted to do huh we need to
reprioritize and
that might change people's okay ours it
might not I think many times people will
be like nope everything is going
according to plan
but um I think that's a useful like
moment of perspective to take on okay
ours if people have that regularly
scheduled time to do that you can also
do it async and then you know make
comments about it and people could
totally do that
I found it useful in our meeting to like
have that mini discussion of walking
through it but curious if other people
have thumbs up thumbs down on that being
a in the last five minutes of Road
mapping time requested from from our
working groups at this quarter
so if anderson while a proposal is let's
first yet the working groups to finish
several maps by showing them out to
Timeline exercise and then ask them to
finish yogurts because what without the
roadmap they might be pointing to the
wrong who cares I think I see them kind
of tied together which is that a as as a
way of people getting a perspective on
their ok ours they can be like well you
know or is this putting us where we want
to be like we set these goals for
ourselves if we complete these goals are
we gonna be where we want to be and a
way of not checking that is like well
can we build the other things we want to
build on top of what we'll have done at
the end of the quarter if this is
getting us there and so I see this is
kind of like a tool in the toolbox for
people to be like yep he's okay RC good
or like who these otheres are off so yes
but I'm kind of framing them together
where like this is the thing you do to
be like yes these okay ours are seem
like totally on track check versus like
ooh this one is off and it does tell you
this one in particular is off so there's
not like these two separate chunks of
work which is like we do this road
mapping thing and then we refocus and we
do some okay are things like coordinated
product got it and so for folks that
didn't get the chance to be last 4g
working group meeting we ran out a very
useful and productive exercise it took
like 15 minutes where we just divided
the multiple milestones we had in our
roadmap and and people like got the
chance to tell like how much important
they think the thing was and how
achievable the thing was in each quarter
and if a mouse zone had to be divided
into three quarters or two quarters
because in order to achieve that in q3
like you have to start in q2 or
something like that and so we can like
structure that exercise repeated again I
it took us 15 minutes it was like pretty
simple and informed a lot and so and
then so I guess like the the revised
proposal that ball is making is what
critics
suctions to send possibly tomorrow to
working groups and I'd say hey I super
helped I'll try to do this before you
finalize your carrots let's get it okay
as finalized next week but it's not
necessarily let's merge the rule map and
they all cares next week just like let's
merge our next week this roadmap thing
is just like to help you delay your
parents okay so I got the proposal I
like it comments
all right cool so are we all on board
with this Holly if you want to comment
in the chat okay just I remember Mike
not working all right so I guess
actually responding to your other part
which is like divide and conquer which
is like we kind of keep our working
group EOC use and like be the extra hey
we're we're here how's it going do you
need any help or assistance in doing
this and that means like you know
bringing bringing that to a working
group weekly meeting or just hanging
with the captain and being like you have
any questions is there anything that's
on fire that as project working group
folks we can help coordinate I'm done
with that which means that I have
offline community infra glad PFS I can
quickly fetch the list probably should
have eight dollars on my clipboard
because I use it so many times
[Music]
okay so yes this is me this is usually
me I'm writing on and so thank you and
should we do the regular distribution
okay okay so I can you want to I can do
I can work with you Holly all I can do
the browsers and community slowly
okay so centralized data stewardship and
quests are still up for those Michelle
should I put Jeremy that's a big thumbs
up thank you all right well anyway now
we have obviously a regular study with
us how do you and I could to help on
this effort I'd actually I'd volunteer
you to take something from me going back
at the direction you might make a good
project working group POC for the
community team I feel like there's
there's some amount of it yeah it seems
related to like thinking about community
and be thinking about collaborations
I've been just kind of jumping in and
being like so what's up how can I help
but you might actually be a better POC
for them and I have four right now
sounds good okay I might want to have
like a offline just kind of a morning -
like methods and practices there from
people I've been doing it but yeah I'm
yeah so far it's just kind of like reach
out to whatever resources we normally
used yeah I've been doing that yeah
maybe just chat quickly oh thank you
ping me awesome okay so that is rad
thank you and we still need someone to
take ownership all by the creation of
the tutorial
volunteer are you laundry money awesome
I was going to offer what can we trade
tutorial what if she already volunteers
cool okay so this is okay ours we have
one minute left
and so I'll practice I could touch on
the next thing fast and maybe like we
can have extra five minutes if people
are available for this time thank you
oh is that a real monocle or just like a
kid started how is a Christmas cool so
IP fest project from a big launch
so I openly see shoes in on the project
repo I will appreciate your review and
comments we talked about this last month
it's basically getting the community
psyched and also at the same time making
sure that our working groups are super
motivated to tackle all these very
envision challenges and that goes true
like doing the CPR exercise and the road
map time I like the size etc just like
making sure that people get proper
review to to feel that like they nail
the right things like it would be great
to kind of like put even if you just I
can internal date like when we want to
start launching this one of the things I
proposed on that issue is like we choose
the the big launch of like the top level
Rome apps but then also weekly do one or
two working rural maps to the community
get to me it's like the working group
itself
I also contribute to what you wrote the
challenges that they're going to face
and meeting the team like meeting more
faces of my PFS
and so we could do this over five weeks
like so lots of announcements we also
have a lot of talks to be published in
the in the back burner and so we have a
lot of material to get the community
psyched for the next two months which is
actually pretty good because it's also
we will be announcing again IP fest
conference on
[Music]
into yeah if you want to share comments
ideas perspectives
otherwise I will propose that let's try
just like put a soft state I'm like what
when we want to start this big lunch and
then focus on the silkier thing for now
and and it starts fighting the backs for
that big thing Oh more times up all
right
comments in to and well so it seems like
there's two stages here which is like
reviewing quadruple duck our goals and
then actually launch launch which
requires some prep work from this group
here to be helping with like creating
blog pose and like formatting that
message and probably tentatively some
collaboration with the communications
working group if they have any input on
this I don't know they seem to be
forming so maybe there's some resources
there that we can collaborate with get
review from but the the step of getting
the community to give us input and
feedback on our roadmaps prior to the
launch I think is something that like a
few people have commented and it's been
cool and open issues and been like hey I
think this thing is important we're like
curious about metrics or something like
that but it also feels like not that
many people have
we're like there's been less feedback
that I think we hoped so question
they're like do we do we need lead time
do we actually need to be scheduling two
things which is like some chunk of work
on trying to like get more people in the
community adding comments and then I'm
actually launching at least that's what
your your current issue has been of
those two phases and the issue like
describe is like very brainstorming like
those are a bunch of items that like I
in my mind but like we should readjust
and and I can cooperate others I
personally think that at least myself
and then I haven't done enough work to
reach out to our most
advanced users to ask them to review the
rule map and see if it meets
expectations and so I would like to do a
little bit more work there maybe other
people have done and so if there was no
response there was always once that's
fair that's fine but I think like we
haven't reached out and like we don't
have we don't need review from a hundred
people by getting a review from my three
to five other cooperate close
collaborators and I'm thinking like
people like open Bazaar for example like
would be great or Qri would be great to
just like check out room map and give us
a lot of like available feedback so yeah
I would like to try that well I think we
should start doing that now just like no
reason to seem to delay
as far as I know and it seems like that
will take a couple weeks turnaround time
and people getting back from the
holidays and maybe during you know this
the end of January we should be starting
to put together the materials for launch
launch phase which is gonna take five
weeks so it's gonna be kind of like an
ongoing rolling thing but we can maybe
try and aim to have the first post which
is probably the main project roadmap
post which kind of sets the stage and
the context for everything early
February ok ok so treating potential
courses we could that's good what
channel's rethinking already thinking
kind of like a private preview for the
kind of closer collaborators and then
the blog post is that kind of the
sequencing so in terms of like asking
for feedback I would route the close
collaborators to keep it very very clear
on the public repos right now and I stay
of something like very critical that
like it's a and it's just critical for
them like he didn't want to share it in
the public make an iCal so tell us that
directly and then we can readjust and so
when reaching out to them definitely
vacation hey I give very something
that's fine yeah yeah I just have yeah I
have some concern about having like kind
of multiple channels where it's unclear
what's like enough where you know that
that's a good point until perhaps we
should use the collaborations repo to
make sure that like we don't have
multiple people like like reaching out
to the same groups and so I just like
coordinate this effort a little bit more
true there and make sure that like
information goes back there okay I think
you doing that like this week we would
love to but I he's also fine okay
alright so let me let me kind of sweet
okay so we're late on your instructions
on now to reach out and like gather
information from co-operators it's
awesome
cool okay so I'll stop here we already
have a minutes over
well the other thing let's do this one
next turn where we have so many things
hot things in our plate on our plate
which is kicking off the package
managers working group and then at least
here was some minor tasks like some
minor asks if you could like with you
this request there is it for today oh no
that is like other genomes sorry Holly
go ahead everyone there's an okay our
calendar it might Mike make any moment
and it's nice because it's an overlay
that you can play to anything I started
trying to organize my GUI and I was like
this is a general thing everyone needs
this so I made it a separate calendar
Steve's asked me to rename it ipfs okay
ours I just wanted to ask Steve if that
was really relevant because the quarters
of a year should be pretty similar for
all the projects but I'm willing to
prefix it best if you think that's
needed oh I didn't know what detail
you're gonna drive the counter so if
it's at that high level yeah great it's
just an start of the quarter mid-quarter
check-in point and an end of course a
week thankfully next you spin you Sam I
know it just I
I did float some annual dates that tried
to take into account somebody like
contingencies ice all around planning
but happy to go with your calendar would
you mind having that too on the okay art
bring me doc on team management we have
important dates from q4 it was like the
IROC version of the OPR calendar
could you apply this section with the
new calendar so that's like maybe just
even embed it if it's possible to
invalid inori me then I get easy to see
Sooey okay so we are twelve minutes over
time
I guess learning point perhaps this
meeting should be 45 we reduce from one
hour to 30 maybe like 45 is a little bit
safe bet but yeah we got a lot of
discussions done and a lot of things
reviewed so and we are action items and
I think this was a great start of the
year for the first video so cool thank
you all for your time if there is no
more oh there's a hand from a curry go
ahead I know this is a handy thing of a
cool all right enjoy the rest of your
day your night your evening your
afternoon depends on where you are and
see you around on the interwebs